# Geographic clustering of travel-acquired infections in Ontario, Canada, 2008-2020 (Harish et al. PLOS Global Public Health 2023) 
## Abstract
As the frequency of international travel increases, more individuals are at risk of travel-acquired infections (TAIs). We reviewed all laboratory-reported cases of malaria, dengue, chikungunya, and enteric fever in Ontario, Canada between 2008-2020 to identify high-resolution geographical clusters for potential targeted pre-travel prevention. Ecological study of over 170,000 unique tests from Public Health Ontario’s laboratory. Smoothed standardized incidence ratios (SIRs) and 95% posterior credible intervals (CIs) were estimated using a spatial Bayesian hierarchical model. High- and low-incidence areas were described using data from the 2016 Census based on the home forward sortation area of patients testing positive. A second model was used to estimate the association between drivetime to the nearest travel clinic and incidence of TAI within high-incidence areas. There were 6,114 microbiologically confirmed TAIs across Ontario over the study period. There was spatial clustering of TAIs (Moran’s I=0.59, p<0.0001). Compared to low-incidence areas, high-incidence areas had higher proportions of immigrants (p<0.0001), were lower income (p=0.0027), had higher levels of university education (p<0.0001), and less knowledge of English/French languages (p<0.0001). In the high-incidence Greater Toronto Area (GTA), each minute increase in drive time to the closest travel clinic was associated with a 3% reduction in TAI incidence (95% CI 1 - 6%). While urban neighbourhoods in the GTA had the highest burden of TAIs, geographic proximity to a travel clinic in the GTA was not associated with an area-level incidence reduction in TAI. This suggests other barriers to seeking and adhering to pre-travel advice. 

## Financial Disclosure 
This work was supported by the Canadian Institutes for Health Research (CIHR) Banting and Best Canada Graduate Scholarships (Master’s and Doctoral) [to VH], Association for Medical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (AMMI) Canada - Canadian Foundation for Infectious Diseases (CFID) Medical Student Research Award 2021 [to VH], the CIHR Vanier Scholarship [to EB], and a Canada Research Chair in Population Health Analytics [to LCR]. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.

## Data Availability:
The underlying data used in this study is from Public Health Ontario's (PHO) laboratory and contains sensitive and potentially identifying personal health information (e.g., geographic location) for rare conditions. PHO cannot disclose the underlying data. Doing so would compromise individual privacy contrary to PHO’s ethical and legal obligations. Our Research Ethics Board approval also does not permit us to share data. Restricted access to the data may be available under conditions prescribed by the Ontario Personal Health Information Protection Act, 2004, the Ontario Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act, the Tri-Council Policy Statement: Ethical Conduct for Research Involving Humans (TCPS 2 (2018)), and PHO privacy and ethics policies.  Data are available for researchers who meet PHO’s criteria for access to confidential data.  Information about PHO’s data access request process is available on-line at https://www.publichealthontario.ca/en/data-and-analysis/using-data/data-requests


